Package:    Paketto Keiretsu 1.0
License:    BSD
Date:       12-Nov-2002
Author:     Dan Kaminsky, DoxPara Research
Email:      dan@doxpara.com
Web:        http://www.doxpara.com
Sky:        Blue
===================================

FOREWARD

Welcome to the Paketto Keiretsu, version 1.0.  Enclosed, please find
implementations of much of what I discussed at the Black Hat Briefings
2002 (USA and Asia), as well as Defcon X.  Full documentation will be
released in an upcoming research paper, which will be written based
upon the feedback received from this 1.0 release.  In the meantime,
the slides for "Black Ops of TCP/IP" have been made available along
with this code.

CONTENTS (ripped from the man pages, if not from the headlines)

   scanrand
       Scanrand  is  a  proof of concept, investigating stateless
       manipulation of the TCP Finite State Machine.   It  imple­
       ments extremely fast and efficient port, host, and network
       trace scanning, and does so with two  completely  separate
       and  disconnected processes -- one that sends queries, the
       other that receives responses and reconstructs the  origi­
       nal  message from the returned content.  Security is main­
       tained, in the sense that false results are  difficult  to
       forge,  by  embeddeding  a  cryptographic signature in the
       outgoing requests which must be detected in  any  received
       response.   HMAC-SHA1,  truncated  to 32 bits, is used for
       this "Inverse SYN Cookie".

   minewt
       Minewt is a minimal "testbed" implementation of a stateful
       address  translation  gateway,  rendered  so  entirely  in
       userspace that not even  the  hardware  addresses  of  the
       gateway   correspond  to  what  the  kernel  is  operating
       against.  Minewt implements what is common referred to  as
       NAT,  as  well  as  a Doxpara-developed technique known as
       MAT.  MAT, or  MAC  Address  Translation,  allows  several
       backend  hosts  to  share the same IP address, by dropping
       the static ARP cache and merging Layer 2 information  into
       the  NAT  state table.  Minewt's ability to manipulate MAC
       addresses also allows it to  demonstrate  Guerilla  Multi­
       cast,  which  allows  multiple hosts on the same subnet to
       receive a unicasted TCP/UDP datastream  from  the  outside
       world.   Minewt  is  not  a  firewall,  and  should not be
       treated as such.

   lc
       Linkcat(lc) attempts to do to Layer 2 (Ethernet) what Net­
       cat(nc) does  for  Layer  4-7(TCP/UDP):   Provide  direct,
       bidirectional,  streaming  access  to  the  network.  Lib­
       cap/tcpdump syntax filters  may  be  specified  in  either
       direction,  but  no  filtering is enabled by default.  Two
       separate syntaxes are supported;  one  accepts  and  emits
       libpcap dump format(raw binary w/ a fixed size file header
       and a fixed size packet header),  the  other  accepts  and
       emits  simple hex w/ backslash line continuation.  Several
       other features are also implemented;  specifically,  early
       work  involving  the  embedding  of  cryptographic shared-
       secret signatures in the Ethernet Trailer is demonstrated.

   phentropy
       Phentropy plots an arbitrarily large data source (of arbi­
       trary  data)  onto  a three dimensional volumetric matrix,
       which may then be parsed by  OpenQVIS.   Data  mapping  is
       accomplished by interpreting the file as a one dimensional
       stream of integers  and  progressively  mapping  quads  in
       phase  space.  This process is reasonably straightforward:
       Take four numbers.  Make X  equal  to  the  second  number
       minus  the first number.  Make Y equal to the third number
       minus the second number.  Then make Z equal  to  the  last
       number  minus the third number.  Given the XYZ coordinate,
       draw a point.  It turns out  that  many,  many  non-random
       datasets  will  have  extraordinarily  apparent regions in
       3-space with increased density, reflecting common rates of
       change  of  the  apparently random dataset.  These regions
       are referred to as Strange Attractors, and can be used  to
       predict future values from an otherwise random system.

   paratrace
       Paratrace traces the path between a client and  a  server,
       much  like  "traceroute",  but  with a major twist: Rather
       than iterate the TTLs of UDP, ICMP, or even TCP SYN  pack­
       ets,  paratrace  attaches itself to an existing, stateful-
       firewall-approved TCP flow, statelessly releasing as  many
       TCP  Keepalive  messages  as  the  software  estimates the
       remote host  is  hop-distant.   The  resultant  ICMP  Time
       Exceeded  replies  are  analyzed, with their original hop­
       count  "tattooed"  in  the  IPID  field  copied  into  the
       returned packets by so many helpful routers.  Through this
       process, paratrace can trace a route without modulating  a
       single  byte of TCP/Layer 4, and thus delivers fully valid
       (if occasionally redundant) segments at Layer  4  --  seg­
       ments generated by another process entirely.

